---
tags:
  - Studies
  - CyberSecurity
  - Theory
---
Snort is the most widely deployed [[IPS]] solution in the world. It is an open source [[NIDS|Network Intrusion Detection System]] that performs real-time traffic analysis and generates alerts when threats are detected on IP networks. It can also perform protocol analysis, content searching or matching, and detect a variety of attacks and probes, such as buffer overflows, stealth port scans, and so on.

## Snort Features

The table lists the features and benefits of Snort IPS.

|Feature|Benefit|
|---|---|
|Signature-based intrusion detection system (IDS) and intrusion prevention system (IPS)|Snort open-source IPS, capable of performing real-time traffic analysis and packet logging on IP networks, runs on the 4000 Series ISR service container without the need to deploy an additional device at the branch.|
|Snort rule set updates|Snort rule set updates for 4000 Series ISRs are generated by Cisco Talos, a group of leading-edge network security experts who work around the clock to proactively discover, assess, and respond to the latest trends in hacking activities, intrusion attempts, malware, and vulnerabilities.|
|Snort rule set pull|The router will be able to download rule sets directly from cisco.com or snort.org to a local server, using one-time commands or periodic automated updates.|
|Snort rule set push|A centralized management tool can push the rule sets based on preconfigured policy, instead of the router directly downloading on its own.|
|Signature allowed listing|Allowed listing allows the disabling of certain signatures from the rule set. Disabled signatures can be reenabled at any time.|

## Snort Modes

Snort can be enabled in either of the following modes:

- **IDS mode** - Snort inspects the traffic and reports alerts, but does not take any action to prevent attacks.
- **IPS mode** - In addition to intrusion detection, actions are taken to prevent attacks.

In the network intrusion detection and prevention mode, Snort monitors network traffic and analyses against a defined rule set. It also performs attack classification and invokes actions against matched rules.

## Snort on Cisco Routers

The Snort engine runs in a [[Virtual Service Container]] on Cisco 4000 Series [[ISR|ISRs]]. The Snort container is distributed as an [[OVA]] file that is installed on the router.

Snort IPS can use the computer power of the service container to scale security with the platform without affecting routing capabilities or other data plane functionality. The virtual service supports three resource profiles that indicate how the Snort container uses system CPU, RAM, and Flash or disk resources.

Snort IPS signatures are delivered automatically to the ISR by Cisco Talos. There are currently more than 30,000 signatures in the Snort rule set. It also supports the ability to customise rule sets and provides centralised deployment and management capabilities for 4000 Series ISRs.

## Snort System Requirements

To run the service container infrastructure with IDS/IPS functionality, Snort IPS requires an ISR 4000 (i.e., 4300 or higher) with a minimum of 8 GB of memory (DRAM) and 8 GB of flash.

*Note: The Cisco 4200 series ISR does not support the default Snort IPS implementation.*

A security K9 license (SEC) is required to activate Snort IPS functionality. Customers also need to purchase a yearly subscription for the signature package distributed on cisco.com. To keep current with the latest threat protection, Snort rule sets are term-based subscriptions, available for one or three years.

There are two types of term-based subscriptions:

- *Community Rule Set* - Limited coverage against threats, focusing on reactive response to security threats versus proactive research work. There is 30-day delayed access to updated signatures in the Community Rule Set, and this subscription does not entitle the customer to Cisco support.
- *Subscriber Rule Set* - This set offers the best protection against threats. It includes coverage in advance of exploits by using the research work of the Cisco Talos security experts. The Subscriber Rule Set also provides the fastest access to updated signatures in response to a security incident or the proactive discovery of a new threat. This subscription is fully supported by Cisco.

To read more information about the operation of Snort, click [[Snort Operation|here]], or to see the Snort commands, see [[Snort Commands|here]].